In today's lesson, we're going to cover
some basic yet essential Linux commands.
Commands in Linux are case sensitive.
So, lowercase ls is not the same
as capital L, capital S.
This really isn't much of an issue because
most commands in Linux are all lowercase.
Here are the commands we're
going to cover today.
Ls lists directory contents.
It can also display detailed information
about files and directories.
Cd is the change directory command.
It does what it says,
it changes the current working directory.
When you log into a Linux system
you're automatically placed into
your home directory.
You can use the CD command to
navigate around the file system.
The pwd command displays
the present working directory, or
your current directory.
Cat concatenates files.
Really, what cat does is it
displays the contents of files.
Echo displays arguments to the screen.
It may not be immediately obvious how
this is helpful, but in a minute,
when I show you some examples,
it will become clear.
Linux systems come with
built-in documentation.
You can use man to display
the documentation for
a given command on the Linux system.
You may hear people refer to man pages.
This is the documentation that you
can view with the man command.
To exit or log out of your shell,
use the exit command.
Finally, clear clears the screen.
Let's see some of these
commands in action.
First let's look at ls.
If you run ls without any arguments,
it lists the files in
the present working directory.
In this example, we see several
items in this directory, desktop,
downloads, notes, etc.
In this example, ls output is color coded.
This may not always be the case, but
it is a common thing to see
on Linux distributions.
We can run ls with a -l option,
which displays a long listing format.
Here, we get more information about the
files and directories that are displayed.
In a later lesson, we'll cover
what all this information means.
As you recall earlier,
I said Linux commands are case sensitive.
So, let's see what happens
if we type in capital LS.
We get an error saying that
the command is not found.
Let's try capital L lower case s,
lower case l capital S.
Same thing.
So, ls works, lower case capital does not.
Let's use the cd command
to change the directory.
Directories and
files are also case sensitive, so
capital TPS lower case reports is not
the same as all lower case tps reports.
We can use ls to see what's in
this directory, and we can use
ls-l to display a long listing, more
detailed information about these files.
Cat will display the contents of a file.
This file only has one line in it.
Echo is used to display
the contents of variables, and
we'll be talking about
environmental variables later on.
Use the man command to learn more
information about how to use a particular
command.
Type the word man, space and
the command you want to know more about.
In order to display the next page of
information, simply hit the space bar.
When you're done looking at the man page,
type q to quite man.
Here's the man page for ls.
You'll see ls has a lot of options.
Here's one that we've been using in this
lesson, -l, use a long listing format.
So, as you can see, there's a lot
of information in the man pages.
We'll talk more about the man
command in the next lesson.
The clear command clears the screen.
If you execute cd without any arguments,
it takes you back to your home directory.
Pwd will display your current or
present working directory.
In order to exit your session,
type the word exit.
Today the commands we've
talked about are ls,
which displays the contents
of a directory.
Cd, which changes the current directory.
Pwd, which displays what
directory you're currently in.
Cat, that displays the contents of files.
Echo displays arguments.
Man displays documentation about commands.
Exit, exits your shell.
And clear, clears your screen.
Start becoming familiar
with these commands.
These are simple and basic, but
yet you'll use these often.
If you'd like,
you can look at the man page for ls and
start exploring some of
the options that it has to offer.
We'll be covering some of the more
important options to ls in a later lesson.
However, this will just give you some
practice at using the man command, and
navigating within man.